HackRF 2022.09.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must update libhackrf and hackrf-tools on your
host computer.  You must also update firmware on your HackRF.

Major changes in this release include:

- Opera Cake, an antenna switching add-on board for HackRF One is fully
  supported. Thank you, Mike Walters!

- A new user interface for rad1o provides status information during operation
  in HackRF mode. Thanks, schneider!

- Documentation has been migrated from a wiki to source code in the docs
  directory that can be built as HTML or PDF. Thanks, Straithe! The PDF is
  included in release archives, and HTML documentation built from current git
  source is available at: https://hackrf.readthedocs.io/

- Numerous performance, stability, and instrumentation improvements have been
  made to hackrf_transfer, hackrf_sweep, libhackrf, and firmware. Thank you
  especially, Martin Ling!

- The project repository has moved to:
  https://github.com/greatscottgadgets/hackrf

There have been many enhancements and bug fixes.  For a full list of changes,
see the git log.


==============================
HackRF 2021.03.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must update libhackrf and hackrf-tools on your
host computer.  You must also update firmware on your HackRF.

Major changes in this release include:

- CPLD bitstreams are now included in and loaded automatically by the firmware.
  There is no longer a need to update the CPLD separately.

- The clock output (CLKOUT) is now turned off by default.

- A new utility, hackrf_clock, provides a way to inspect and modify
  configuration of hardware clocks, including turning on and off CLKOUT.

- The rad1o badge is now supported by firmware in this release.  Firmware from
  the HackRF release/repository is different than the original CCCamp firmware
  and only supports operation as a USB SDR peripheral.

- When using a HackRF One with a PortaPack in "HackRF Mode" (operating as a USB
  peripheral), the PortaPack display now indicates operational status and
  settings.

There have been many more enhancements and bug fixes.  For a full list of
changes, see the git log.

Thanks to Jared Boone, Dominic Spill, schneider, and Mike Walters for major
contributions to this release!


==============================
HackRF 2018.01.1 Release Notes

This is a firmware maintenance release that improves reliability of HackRF One
when booting from the DFU bootloader.  If you do not frequently use DFU boot,
there is no reason to upgrade to this release.


==============================
HackRF 2017.02.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must update libhackrf and hackrf-tools on your
host computer.  You must also update firmware on your HackRF.  It is important
to update both the host code and firmware for this release to work properly.
If you only update one or the other, you may experience unpredictable behavior.

Major changes in this release include:

- Sweep mode: A new firmware function enables wideband spectrum monitoring by
  rapidly retuning the radio without requiring individual tuning requests from
  the host computer.  The new hackrf_sweep utility demonstrates this function,
  allowing you to collect spectrum measurements at a sweep rate of 8 GHz per
  second.  Thanks to Mike Walters, author of inspectrum, for getting this
  feature working!

- Hardware synchronization: It is now possible to wire the expansion headers of
  two or more HackRF Ones together so that they start sampling at the same
  time.  This is advantageous during phase coherent operation with clock
  synchronized HackRFs.  See the -H option of hackrf_transfer.  Thank you, Mike
  Davis!

- A new utility, hackrf_debug, replaces three older debug utilities,
  hackrf_si5351c, hackrf_max2837, and hackrf_rffc5071.

- Power consumption has been reduced by turning off some microcontroller
  features we weren't using.

There have been many more enhancements and bug fixes.  For a full list of
changes, see the git log.

Special thanks to Dominic Spill who has taken over much of the software
development effort and has helped with nearly every improvement since the
previous release!


==============================
HackRF 2015.07.2 Release Notes

Bonus release!  This release contains fixes for CMake configuration bugs that
affected installation of 2015.07.1 on some platforms.


==============================
HackRF 2015.07.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must update libhackrf and hackrf-tools on your
host computer.  You must also update firmware on your HackRF.  It is important
to update both the host code and firmware for this release to work properly.
If you only update one or the other, you may experience unpredictable
behaviour.

Major changes in this release include:

- Multiple HackRF support.  Users with more than one HackRF can target a
  specific device from software using the device serial number.  The serial
  number is easy to find with hackrf_info.  Thanks, Hessu!

- Linux kernel module detaching.  A work-around to avoid the unofficial HackRF
  kernel module in recent kernel versions that has been causing problems for
  many users.

- Updating the CPLD is now possible from Windows.  There is no CPLD update with
  this release, but Windows users should now be able to update.

- Support for rad1o hardware, the badge of CCCamp 2015 based on HackRF One.
  This package contains host software supporting rad1o; for firmware and other
  resources, refer to: https://rad1o.badge.events.ccc.de/

There have been many more enhancements and bug fixes, for a full list of
changes, see the git log.


==============================
HackRF 2014.08.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must update libhackrf and hackrf-tools on your
host computer.  You must also update firmware and the CPLD.  It is important to
update both the firmware and the CPLD for this release to work properly.  If
you only update one or the other, you may experience an inverted baseband
spectrum.

For a complete list of changes, see the git log.  Highlights include:

- HackRF now uses high side injection when tuning to frequencies below 2150
  MHz.  This significantly reduces images on both RX and TX that resulted from
  harmonics of the front-end local oscillator.  If you ever wondered why you
  were picking up broadcast FM stations at frequencies well outside the FM
  broadcast band, they were probably such images.

- A CLKIN firmware bug was fixed.  The bug prevented switching to the external
  clock source.  Switching now works automatically at the start of every TX or
  RX operation.  If a clock signal is detected on CLKIN, that external source
  is used.  If a clock signal is not detected on CLKIN, the internal crystal is
  used.

- hackrf_transfer now has a signal source mode that transmits a CW signal.
  Thanks, dovecho!

- The optional udev rules file was moved from hackrf-tools to libhackrf.


==============================
HackRF 2014.04.1 Release Notes

To upgrade to this release, you must install updates to the software on your
host computer including libhackrf, hackrf-tools, and any other software (e.g.
gr-osmosdr) that uses libhackrf.  You must also update firmware and the CPLD
(which should be updated after firmware and host software is updated).

For a complete list of changes, see the git log.  Highlights include:

- The sample format has changed from unsigned 8 bit integers to signed 8 bit
  integers.  This affects all HackRF software and changes the file format used
  by hackrf_transfer.  If you need to convert a file from unsigned bytes to
  signed bytes, I recommend sox:

  $ sox old.ub new.sb

- HackRF One is now supported and is the default target platform when compiling
  firmware.  To compile firmware for Jawbreaker, set the BOARD variable:

  $ make -e BOARD=JAWBREAKER

- HackRF One hardware design and documentation are complete.  It is now the
  preferred platform.

- Automatic clock synchronization is enabled in the firmware.  To activate
  clock synchronization, simply connect an SMA cable from CLKOUT on one HackRF
  One to CLKIN on another HackRF One.  The clock signal is a 10 MHz square wave
  at 3.3 V DC.  This also works on Jawbreaker but requires the installation of
  SMA connectors and a few other components noted in the schematic diagram.

- The automatic tuning algorithm is improved for frequencies above 2150 MHz.
  The algorithm (in firmware) automatically avoids spurs caused by harmonic
  relationships between oscillator frequencies in the analog RF section.
  Similar improvements below 2150 MHz will require further effort.

- An explicit tuning option is now available to select tuning parameters
  different from those chosen by the automatic tuning algorithm.  Automatic
  tuning should be preferred for most use cases, but advanced users can use
  explicit tuning when there is a need, for example, to avoid a particular
  local oscillator frequency for a specific application.  Explicit tuning is
  implemented only in hackrf_transfer so far.

- Antenna port power on HackRF One can be enabled or disabled during RX or TX.
  This is implemented in hackrf_transfer.  When activated, 3.0 to 3.3 V DC is
  supplied to the antenna port.  This can safely supply up to 50 mA, enabling
  equipment including some active antennas.

- The firmware compilation and installation instructions have changed.  See
  firmware/README and firmware/cpld/README for details.

Known bug: CPLD update does not work on Windows.  See:
https://github.com/mossmann/hackrf/issues/113

Many thanks to Ben Gamari and Jared Boone for their considerable efforts to
improve the firmware in this release!


==============================
HackRF 2013.07.1 Release Notes

A firmware update is required to take advantage of features of this release and
for compatibility with future software based on this release.

For a complete list of changes, see the git log.  Highlights include:

- DC offset correction (greatly reducing the spike seen in the center of an FFT
  display)
- Intermediate Frequency (IF) selection


==============================
HackRF 2013.06.1 Release Notes

This is the first release of the HackRF project.

This release package is simply a copy of the git repository with the addition
of a binary firmware image (in the firmware-bin directory) that may be used
to upgrade the firmware on a HackRF Jawbreaker.  For instructions, see:

https://github.com/mossmann/hackrf/wiki/Updating-Firmware

The git repository is located at:

https://github.com/mossmann/hackrf
